# IASC 2P02 | Domenic Di Tella

## About Me
My name is Domenic Di Tella and I’m a second year student attending Brock University. My major is Interactive Arts and Science, a program that focuses on the intersection of interactive technologies and the humanities. Within the realm of digital humanities, my specialization is media archeology. The research program is a field that tries to grasp the relation between emerging media and media of the past. My existing projects are reflective of my specialization in media archaeology. They focus on the examination of the past and offer concepts of how the past directly affects the future of technology. This specific type of exertion will benefit me in the future by extending my communication skills and helping me understand the root of certain types of technology. This is important to gain more foundational knowledge to improve upon technology in the future.

## Featured Presentation
My research project was on a device called the Cuecat. The project was presented in the form of a pecha kucha. A Pecha kucha is a presentation style in which 20 slides are shown for 20 seconds each. This format allows the presentation to flow smoothly and helps avoid reading from a script. The Cuecat was essentially a failed handheld barcode scanner that users could set up to their computers. The approach I took with this assignment was to outline the product, how the product was presented to the public, why the product failed, what became of the product and finally how the product affected the future. My presentation’s purpose was to show how this barcode scanning device developed into something similar to a barcode: A QR Code. The QR code also seems to be failing in advertisement and I demonstrated how hyperlink marketing fails because it doesn’t benefit consumers as much as companies. I wanted to present my ideas on the where the QR code could find itself in the future to make hyperlink advertisements a satisfying future for smartphone users. In result of this presentation, I discovered how there is no final solution to media. The QR code could have done what the Cuecat failed to do but it had its own mistakes that it needed to overcome. Something digital humanities helped me understand that technology will never stop evolving and each time it evolves new errors will follow it.

Initially, my project did not focus on media archaeology and because of this I added slides over time to better explain my argument. I added one slide to better explain the similarities of how each product was presented to the public because each type of media was confusing for users to use. For the CueCat and QR code, users did not know why they could not just simply type the companies name in the Google search bar instead of scanning. The advertising for media made for advertising should be more clear. My initial draft of the assignment failed to include the past of barcodes and hyperlinks. This is important to include because it makes the timeline of the media more apparent. Including the specific origin is essential to media archelogy to fully show its evolution. I also wanted to include the origin of the  QR code [here](https://github.com/domenicditella/IASC-2P02/commit/1b4211eea778af8c326fa3b563178261b313440d) since I failed to mention the [difference](https://github.com/domenicditella/IASC-2P02/commit/5b318ac51cd6bcead3a5c542282251316775fbcd) between the [barcode](https://github.com/domenicditella/IASC-2P02/commit/37716a342fee961a55ad27d7800a7ca94dbbf6e4) and QR code. They both use hyperlink technology (I added the history of the hyperlink [here](https://github.com/domenicditella/IASC-2P02/commit/4f9310259531cb5906adc712e4756d630e1cec0c)) but essentially are different types of media. The QR code was actually made before the CueCat. Although I already had a slide about the future of this technology, I wanted to give present examples of how the QR code could be used for advertising as there is very successful ways that it is being done. However, these successful QR codes are used mostly in the entertainment industry so I created ideas of how it could be used in the advertisement industry. 

[Pecha Kucha](https://domenicditella.github.io/IASC-2P02/reveal/index.html)

## Collaborative Project
For this assignment, we were assigned teams to research a project tool in the field of digital humanities. We picked a forum based website called Humanities Commons. The website acted as an archival repository for anything in the field of digital humanities. I personally researched how the website works and what it could be used for. Since the field of digital humanities is fairly new, the website is a useful place to gain reliable and scholarly information from a convenient place as explained [here](https://imgur.com/a/dA8Le). We also discovered that the tool created spaces for scholars digitally and culturally.

I approach collaborative scholarship with an open mind to my group’s ideas. I believe listening to others’ ideas is just as important as giving them. This can be seen [here](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/issues/8) in the commit issues of one of my group members commenting on a piece of my work. It is important to apply changes when criticism is given. When working in a team, communication is essential and that is why our team had a group chat where we would send out commits. The group chat allowed for convenient communication so we could quickly apply changes. In digital humanities, collaboration elevates a research agenda because it promotes a setting where we can learn concepts from each other. Essentially, having four people in a group is similar to having four peer teachers. Everyone can offer new ideas. 


## Blog Post

Less is More? Franco Moretti, an literary scholar, claims that we must stop reading books in order to understand literature....[continue reading](blog)

## Solo Presentation
[click here](https://domenicditella.github.io/IASC-2P02/reveal/index.html)
